---
description: >-
  This page details common errors that can occur when deploying Weka in AWS
  using CloudFormation and what can be done to resolve them.
---

# Troubleshooting

## Introduction

Using CloudFormation deployment saves a lot of potential errors that may occur during installation, especially in the configuration of security groups and other connectivity-related issues. However, the following errors related to the following subjects may occur during installation:

* Installation logs
* AWS account limits
* AWS instance launch error
* Launch in placement group error
* Instance type not supported in AZ
* ClusterBootCondition timeout
* Clients failed to join cluster

## Installation Logs

As explained in [Self-Service Installation](self-service-portal.md), each instance launched in a Weka CloudFormation template starts by installing Weka on itself. This is performed using a script named `wekaio-instance-boot.sh` and launched by cloud-init. All logs generated by this script are written to the instance’s Syslog.

Additionally, the [CloudWatch Logs Agent](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/EC2NewInstanceCWL.html) is installed on each instance, dumping Syslog to CloudWatch under a log-group named`/wekaio/<stack-name>`. For example, if the stack is named`cluster1,` a log-group named `/wekaio/cluster1` should appear in CloudWatch a few moments after the template shows the instances have reached CREATE\_COMPLETE state.

Under the log-group, there should be a log-stream for each instance Syslog matching the instance name in the CloudFormation template. For example, in a cluster with 6 backend instances, log-streams named `Backend0-syslog` through `Backend5-syslog` should be observed.

## AWS Account Limits

When deploying the stack, this error may be received in the description of a CREATE\_FAILED event for one or more instances, indicating that more instances \(N\) have been requested than that permitted by the current instance limit of L for the specified instance type. To request an adjustment to this limit, go to [aws.amazon.com](http://aws.amazon.com/contact-us/ec2-request) to open a support case with AWS.

## AWS Instance Launch Error

If the error _Instance i-0a41ba7327062338e failed to stabilize. Current state: shutting-down. Reason: Server.InternalError: Internal error on launch_ is received, one of the instances was unable to start. This is an internal AWS error and it is necessary to try to deploy the stack again.

## Launch in Placement Group Error

If the error _We currently do not have sufficient capacity to launch all of the additional requested instances into Placement Group 'PG'_ is received, it was not possible to place all the requested instances in one placement-group.

The CloudFormation template creates all instances in one placement-group to guarantee best performance. Consequently, if the deployment fails with this error, try to deploy in another AZ.

## Instance Type Not Supported In AZ

If the error _The requested configuration is currently not supported. Please check the documentation for supported configurations_ or _Your requested instance type \(T\) is not supported in your requested Availability Zone \(AZ\). Please retry your request by not specifying an Availability Zone or choosing az1, az2, az3_ is received, the instance type that you tried to provision is not supported in the specified AZ. Try selecting another subnet to deploy the cluster in, which will implicitly select another AZ.

## ClusterBootCondition Timeout

When a _ClusterBootCondition timeout_ occurs, there was a problem creating the initial Weka system cluster. To debug this error, look in the `Backend0-syslog` log-stream \(as described above\). The first backend instance is responsible for creating the cluster and therefore, its log should provide the information necessary to debug this error.

## Clients Failed to Join

When the message _Clients failed to join for uniqueId: ClientN_ is received while in the WaitCondition, one of the clients was unable to join the cluster. Look at the Syslog of the client specified in uniqueId as described above.

{% hint style="success" %}
**For Example:** If the error message specifies that client 3 failed to join, a message ending with `uniqueId: Client3` should be displayed. Look at the log-stream named `Client3-syslog`.
{% endhint %}

## Health Monitoring 

You can monitor the cluster instances by checking the cluster EC2 instances in the AWS EC2 service. You can set up [Cloud Watch](https://aws.amazon.com/documentation/cloudwatch/) as external monitoring to the cluster.

Connecting to the Weka system cluster GUI will provide the[ Weka cluster health](../../getting-started-with-weka/gui.md), where you can see if any component is not functioning well, view system [alerts](../../usage/alerts/), [events](../../usage/events/), and [statistics](../../usage/statistics/). 



