---
description: Content for review and commenting
---

# 4.2 RN: What's New

**What’s New?**

**V4.2.0**

This release of WEKA 4.2 brings in many improvements and features, expanding the value of your WEKA deployment.

**Mount filesystems from multiple clusters on a single client**

You can mount filesystems from up to seven clusters in parallel on a single WEKA for enhanced performance and use cases.

**Snapshots improvements**

* Quickly download a previously taken snapshot to another cluster with a different number of buckets.
* Auto-prefetch of metadata when creating a filesystem from S2O (new background task: SNAPSHOT\_PREFETCH).
* Live snapshot restoration using a new name for the overwritten snapshot to preserve, thus allowing the IO operations continuity to the filesystem.
* Added abort/pause snapshot download functions.
* Added directory quotas for writable snapshots for the WEKA CSI Plugin.

**WEKA CSI Plugin enhancements**

* Added mount options to snapshot and filesystem.
* Snapshots and volume cloning.
* Added support for k8s fsGroups.

**Increased organizations support**

Increased the maximum number of supported organizations to 256 per cluster.

**New GUI improvements**

The GUI is improved with new features and operations that were only available through the CLI. These include:

* Add/remove servers to/from the SMB cluster.
* Display insights of top processes usage, remote procedure calls (RPCs), and drives load and latency.

**Azure cloud enhancement**

* Added support for DPDK.
* Increased the MTU size for UDP cluster.

**Interoperability updates**

* Added support for Mellanox OFED version 5.9-0.5.6.0.
* Added support RHEL/Rocky Linux 9.1/9.0 and Ubuntu 22.04 for clients only (only use applications set with 2MB hugepages).

**HashiCorp Vault**

Added support for HashiCorp Vault 1.13.



**Breaking Changes / Deprecation**

**4.2.0**

**Removed the `auth_token` mount option**

Following the deprecation of the `auth_token` mount option in version 3.14 (and using `auth_token_path` as an alternative option), the `auth_token` mount option was removed from version 4.2.

**Single protocol type per server support**

A single WEKA server can now only have one protocol server (S3, SMB, or NFS). Adding an additional protocol process/server is no longer allowed. For clusters being upgraded, distribute the various (S3, SMB, or NFS) protocols across all the backend servers before running the upgrade.

**Only the multi-container backend (MCB) architecture is supported**

The legacy Single Container Backend (SCB) architecture, where each server in the cluster includes a single container with all the processes running on it, is deprecated in 4.1. To upgrade to 4.2, the source cluster must be in MCB architecture. Contact the WEKA Customer Success team to convert a 4.1 cluster in a legacy architecture to the MCB architecture.

**Protocols Improvement: ETCD replacement**

The ETCD component, which stores the IAM format, policies, service accounts, users, STS, and policy mappings, is replaced by a Key-value WEKA API Service (KWAS)—a dedicated WEKA configuration component. The KWAS addresses configuration issues caused by the ETCD. When upgrading a cluster running with ETCD from 4.1, the cluster continues to run with ETCD in V4.2, and an alert is raised to update the cluster to operate with KWAS. Contact the WEKA Customer Success team to perform the update.
