# Documentation revision history

<table><thead><tr><th width="161">WEKA version</th><th>Description of changes</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td></td><td><ul><li>CDM Local 1.2 updates: Supports automated Terraform deployment, removes the Windows installation package, updates the launch process, and enhances information gathering options.</li><li>WEKA CSI Plugin version 2.5.0 updates: Provides NFS transport support designed for non-performance-critical scenarios or environments where installing the WEKA client is not feasible.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.4.0</td><td><p></p><p>This release includes a variety of optimizations to benefit customers operating the WEKA Data Platform at scale.</p><p><strong>Improvements</strong></p><ul><li><code>weka stats</code> performance enhancements reduce the latency of metric reporting, especially on large clusters.</li><li>To limit access to POSIX filesystems in Organizations, define access lists by network and role by <code>weka security policy</code> hierarchy. Attach, detach, and test policies by <code>weka org security policy</code>.</li><li>Customers using clients with multiple clusters can now store profile tokens and reference them by name for convenience. The profile token location is <code>$HOME/.weka/auth-token-&#x3C;profile>.json</code>, and invocation by the new profile parameter, such as <code>weka user login [—-profile &#x3C;profile-name>]</code>. See <a data-mention href="../weka-filesystems-and-object-stores/mounting-filesystems/manage-authentication-across-multiple-clusters-with-connection-profiles.md">manage-authentication-across-multiple-clusters-with-connection-profiles.md</a></li></ul><p><strong>SMB-W enhancements</strong></p><ul><li>WEKA now supports configuring shares with user permissions in advance of validating the user with directory services</li><li>Commands <code>share add</code> and <code>share update</code> now support <code>allow-guest-access</code>.</li><li>Added the ACLs feature to enable or disable Windows Access-Control Lists for the share, offering options for POSIX, Windows, or Hybrid (default: POSIX) and allowing interoperability by prioritizing the most recent permission based on timestamps.</li></ul><p><strong>S3 enhancement</strong></p><ul><li>Introduced an updated health-check URL, <code>/wekas3api/health/ready</code>, for load balancers to use in assessing the health of S3 servers, improving monitoring and load balancing capabilities.</li></ul><p><strong>Additional enhancements</strong></p><ul><li>WEKA client support is extended to: Debian 10, Rocky 8.6, Rocky 8.7, Rocky 8.8, Oracle Linux 9, and SLES 15 SP5.</li><li>Added a verification step for <strong>LLQ and WC</strong> in the upgrade workflow. To ensure proper LLQ functionality after upgrades, verify that Write Combining (WC) is enabled in the igb_uio driver. See <a data-mention href="../operation-guide/upgrading-weka-versions.md#id-5.-verify-llq-and-wc-are-enabled-in-aws">#id-5.-verify-llq-and-wc-are-enabled-in-aws</a>.</li><li>Added a CLI reference guide, which is generated from the output of running the weka command with the help option. It provides detailed descriptions of available commands, arguments, and options. See <a data-mention href="../getting-started-with-weka/manage-the-system-using-weka-cli/cli-reference-guide.md">cli-reference-guide.md</a>.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Added the <strong>WEKApod Data Platform Appliance Guide</strong>, which provides comprehensive instructions for setting up and configuring the WEKApod™. The WEKApod is a turnkey data platform appliance designed as a high-performance datastore for NVIDIA DGX SuperPOD. Each appliance includes pre-configured storage servers and software, enabling simplified deployment and faster time to value. For details, see <a data-mention href="../wekapod/overview.md">overview.md</a>.</td></tr><tr><td>4.3.5</td><td><p>This release aims to enhance usability, focusing on WEKA SMB-W. It also contains field fixes and support for new platforms and hardware.</p><p><strong>SMB-W enhancements</strong></p><ul><li>Case sensitivity in SMB-W shares, beyond the case insensitive limits of the Microsoft implementation.</li><li>Symbolic link following in SMB-W shares.</li><li>Named streams support in shares, sometimes called alternate data streams (ADS).</li><li>Optional reduction of shared state between SMB-W containers for workloads that don't rely on it.</li><li>Zero copy support for MacOS clients is enabled by default, but can be disabled in share options.</li><li>Share updates support read-only and hidden properties.</li></ul><p><strong>S3 enhancements</strong></p><ul><li>Updated the <code>s3 cluster status</code> output to align with the style of <code>weka cluster container</code>, showing details like Hostname, Status, Uptime, Last Error, and Active Requests. Use <code>weka s3 cluster status-old</code> during upgrades, as initial output may be inaccurate until all frontend containers are updated.</li></ul><p><strong>Additional enhancements</strong></p><ul><li>The REST API for quota listing includes the full directory path, aligning with the CLI command output.</li><li><p>Extended support for operating systems:</p><ul><li>Clients: RHEL/Rocky Linux 9.4, AlmaLinux 9.4, 8.10, Debian 12.</li><li>Backends: RHEL/Rocky Linux 9.4.</li></ul></li><li>Improved NFS read operation performance.</li><li>Added support for Broadcom P2200.</li><li>Added support for colored output in the <code>weka status</code> and other table-returning commands, configurable by the <code>--color</code> option or <code>WEKA_CLI_COLOR</code> environment variable. See <a data-mention href="../getting-started-with-weka/manage-the-system-using-weka-cli/#weka-cli-command-output-colors">#weka-cli-command-output-colors</a>.</li><li>Introduced the Data Services container for running resource-intensive background tasks, starting with the Quota Coloring task, with more tasks to be supported in future releases. See <a data-mention href="../operation-guide/background-tasks/set-up-a-data-services-container-for-background-tasks.md">set-up-a-data-services-container-for-background-tasks.md</a>.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.3.4</td><td><ul><li>This release contains an important enhancement for clusters under extreme memory pressure.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>N/A</td><td><ul><li>Added a new topic to WEKA and Slurm integration: <a data-mention href="../best-practice-guides/weka-and-slurm-integration/avoid-conflicting-cpu-allocations.md">avoid-conflicting-cpu-allocations.md</a>.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.3.3</td><td><ul><li>NFS locking is fully supported for protocol versions 3 and 4, and configurable through global parameters.</li><li>Added support for additional QLC drives for higher density deployments while maintaining high performance and longevity standards.</li><li>SMB-W performance is optimized for macOS clients.</li><li>SMB-W share access now supports allow and deny statements based on IP address.</li><li>For Windows clients with many top-level entities, folder options appear without delay.</li><li>WEKA client support extended to Rocky 8.10, Rocky 8.9, Rocky 9.3, and Oracle Linux 9.</li><li>WEKA backend support extended to Rocky 8.10.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.3.2</td><td><ul><li>Added graceful container management to ensure safe stopping or restarting of a container. See <a href="../operation-guide/expanding-and-shrinking-cluster-resources/expansion-of-specific-resources.md#graceful-container-management-ensuring-safe-actions">Graceful container management: ensuring safe actions</a>.</li><li>Added the <a href="../planning-and-installation/weka-cdm-web-user-guide.md">WEKA Cloud Deployment Manager (CDM) User Guide</a>, simplifying the deployment of WEKA clusters in public cloud environments (including AWS, Azure, and GCP).</li><li>A new algorithm for multi-part uploads is now the default, decreasing resource overhead for most customers using WEKA S3.</li><li>WEKA S3 response codes are now in <code>weka stats</code>, with types and categories listed under Operation (Envoy).</li><li>WEKA S3 logs now report real remote client addresses via the X-Forwarded-For header.</li><li>The default memory limit for SMB-W containers has been raised to 32GB to accommodate trends in customer requirements related to SMB protocol performance.</li></ul><p><strong>Deprecation</strong></p><ul><li>RHEL 7 and CentOS 7 support have reached EOL status.</li><li>Deployment on Amazon EC2 instance families M4, R3, R4, and C4 are no longer supported.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.3.1</td><td><ul><li>Added a topic to restrict a stateless client’s operations to only the essential APIs for mounting and unmounting operations. See <a href="../weka-filesystems-and-object-stores/mounting-filesystems/#mounting-filesystems-using-stateless-clients">Isolated port for restricted stateless client operations</a><strong>.</strong></li><li>Added the following instance types to the <a href="../planning-and-installation/aws/weka-installation-on-aws-using-terraform/supported-ec2-instance-types.md#client-ec2-instances">Client EC2 instances</a> section: C7a, M7i, R7a, X2idn, X2iedn, R7iz, R7g, R7gd, R6g, R6gd, G6, GR6, F1, and Z1d.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4.3.0</td><td><ul><li>Initial support for ARM, specifically for ARM-based EC2 instances in AWS. To reflect the instruction set architecture of hosts in a cluster, APIs, and commands like the Weka <code>cluster server list</code> now contain an architecture column.</li><li>Added <a href="../additional-protocols/nfs-support/#nfs-integration-with-kerberos-service">NFS integration with Kerberos service</a>.</li><li>Synchronized snapshots have been re-enabled.</li><li>A new <code>--client-only</code> flag in the <code>weka version get</code> and <code>weka version set</code> commands. When used, this flag ensures that only components necessary for stateless clients are considered for installation.</li><li>Discontinued support for Intel processor families SandyBridge (2011) and IvyBridge (2012).</li><li>Discontinued support for the legacy NFS stack in 4.3.0. If legacy NFS is enabled, upgrading to 4.3.0 will fail.</li><li><code>weka alerts</code> command output update<br>The <code>muted</code> column is removed from the <code>weka alerts</code> command output unless <code>--muted</code> or <code>-v</code> is provided.</li><li><code>weka nfs interface-group add</code> command update<br>The <code>manage-gids</code> parameter, which was always set to true, has been eliminated from the <code>weka nfs interface-group add</code> command and associated API.</li><li><code>weka fs tier s3</code> command output update<br>The following columns have been removed from the <code>weka fs tier s3</code> command output: NODES UP, NODES DOWN, and NODES UNKNOWN. Instead, more detailed columns have been added in the verbose output (using <code>-v</code>).</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
